# Your StdLib Vue App

Welcome to your StdLib Vue template!

The Vue template is designed to make creating and running Vue.js single page
apps (SPAs) easy. The advantages of using StdLib here are the same for any
other StdLib service: built in scalability without managing infrastructure.

## Local Development
From your service's main directory, run `lib http` to start a temporary HTTP
server. You can then open `http://localhost:8170/<username>/<appname>` and see a
sample app ready to go! Source files are automatically compiled when you boot up
the server, and are recompiled upon changes you make to them.

## Deployment

Deployment works the same way as other StdLib services. Running `lib up dev`
will deploy your service to a dev environment, which you can access at:

```
<username>.stdlib.com/<service name>@dev
```

Running `lib release` (once you're ready) will create an immutable version of
the service at:

```
<username>.stdlib.com/<service name>
```

The endpoint will appear in the StdLib registry unless `publish: false` is set
in your app's _package.json_ file.

If you would like to tear down a release of your app, run the following command
from your app directory:

```
// Development environments
lib down dev

// Release environments
lib down -r <version>
```

## App Structure

StdLib creates several directories when using the vue template. Unlike other
services you may have created, you'll be leaving the _functions_ directory alone
during development -- the functions inside are preconfigured to handle your SPA.
Instead, you'll be working in the _app_ directory. This directory contains
a folder for static assets and a folder called _vue_ that will contain the logic
and styling for your SPA.

**Important note:** When referencing a static file from a template, you must
reference it via the url `static/<path>`. This will access files that you add to
the _app/static_ directory of your project. The sample app generated by the
template has examples of this.

StdLib sets up a single-file component structure set up by default, but you are
free to structure your app however you'd like. We also preconfigure Sass for
styling and the Vue router for navigation to make development easier. Router
configuration for different pages of your app should be configured in the
_router.js_ file. See the generated file for examples.

## Environment Variables

Environment variables specified in the _env.json_ file can be referenced from
your app code by using the global _env_ variable. For example, if your
_env.json_ file looks like this:

```
{
  "local": {
    "key": "local_development_key"
  },
  "dev": {
    "key": "development_key"
  },
  "release": {
    "key": "production_key"
  }
}
```

You could reference _key_ as `env.key` in your Javascript.

If you want to access an environment variable in a Vue component template,
you'll have to add the _env_ object to your component's model like this:

```
<style lang="sass">
  // Styling goes here
</style>

<template>
  <div class="team-members-cell">
    Here's the value of env.key: {{ env.key }}
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      env: env
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

**Important reminder:** Environment variables you set will be visible to
anyone accessing your SPA (it's front end code after all!) so make sure you
don't store any sensitive or secret information as environment variables

## The Compilation Process

StdLib automatically sets up Babel and Webpack to compile your app by generating
a _webpack.config.js_ file and a _.babelrc_ file. A development build runs
whenever you run an HTTP server with `lib http`, and a minified production build
runs when you deploy an app with `lib up`. The compilation output goes to
another folder called _static_ in the service directory.

# Further Reading

* [Vue Documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/)
* [Vue Router Documentation](https://router.vuejs.org/en/)
* [Sass Documentation](http://sass-lang.com/guide)
* [Webpack Documentation](https://webpack.github.io/)
* [Babel Documentation](https://babeljs.io/docs/setup/)

# Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Evan You for creating a wonderful product in Vue. He
has built Vue largely by himself, and relies on donations. Check out his Patreon
[here](https://www.patreon.com/evanyou).
